Multi-Format Number Converter                                               Date: 05/20/2024

Description:
This repository contains the source code for a Multi-Format Number Converter developed by Usman Haider. The application is built using Python's Tkinter library and provides a user-friendly interface to convert numbers between different formats: Decimal, Binary, Octal, and Hexadecimal. The program also features a light and dark theme toggle for enhanced user experience, and a modern blue UI with a customized title font for an aesthetically pleasing interface. The steps of each conversion process are displayed in a read-only text box, allowing users to follow the conversion steps without the ability to edit them.

Features:
Multi-Format Conversion: Convert numbers between Decimal, Binary, Octal, and Hexadecimal formats.
User-Friendly Interface: A clear and intuitive graphical interface for easy number conversion, with a modern blue background and custom font for the title.
Theme Toggle: Switch between light and dark themes to suit user preferences.
Read-Only Conversion Steps: Conversion steps are displayed in a read-only box, preventing user edits while allowing easy tracking of the conversion process.
Error Handling: Displays user-friendly error messages if the input is invalid or not in the correct format.
Clear and Exit Options: Easily clear all inputs/outputs or exit the application with a single click.

Installation:
Clone the Repository:
bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/Usman11611/multi-format-number-converter
Navigate to the Project Directory:
bash
Copy code
cd multi-format-number-converter
Set Up Python Environment:
Ensure Python is installed on your local machine.
Install any required dependencies (if applicable).

Setup:
Install Required Packages:
The application relies on standard Python libraries, so no additional packages are typically required. Tkinter is included with most Python installations.
Run the Application:
Start the converter by running the main script:
bash
Copy code
python number_converter.py

Usage:
Converting a Number:
Enter a number in the input field.
Select the format of the input number (Decimal, Binary, Octal, Hexadecimal).
Click the "Convert" button to see the equivalent values in all formats and the detailed conversion steps in the read-only box.
Theme Toggle:
Click the "Dark Mode" button to switch between light and dark themes.
Clearing Inputs/Outputs:
Click the "Clear" button to reset all input and output fields.
Exiting the Application:
Click the "Exit" button to close the application.
Example:
If you input E7 as a Hexadecimal number, the converter will display:

Binary: 11100111 (Binary)
Decimal: 231 (Decimal)
Hexadecimal: E7 (Hexadecimal)
Octal: 347 (Octal)


Creator:
Usman Haider - Developer and Designer

